EIT-2497: Documentation - Cash App Pay (#185)
afterpay/sdk-android: docs/getting-started/cash-app-pay.md

{: .info }
> When creating a checkout token, both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl` must be set. Failing to do so will cause undefined behavior. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more by checking the [api reference][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'}.

## Step 1: Import the Cash App Pay Kit Dependency

You can get the the latest version of the SDK from Maven. This is the import definition using Gradle:

```gradle
implementation "app.cash.paykit:core:1.0.3"
```

For definitions of other build systems, see [Cash App Pay Kit on Maven Central][cash-on-maven]{:target="_blank"}.

{: .info }
> Version `v1.0.3` of the SDK size is `12.3 kB`.

## Step 2: Create a Cash App Pay Kit SDK Instance

To create a new instance of the Cash App Pay Kit SDK, you must pass the `clientId`. This is a required field. This can be retrieved through the Afterpay object: `Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId`.

{: .note }

> > Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][configure-afterpay] before attempting to access `Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId`

Reviewer: @ScottAntonacAP the link to instructions is broken, please check

Author: Thanks, the link is only broken in the html that I passed across because it was a saved file that didn't include the whole site. The link works on my local with the dev server running and will work once live. Really appreciate the thorough testing 👍

{: .info }
> You should use the Sandbox environment during the development phase and Production for your actual production releases.

Creating a sandbox Cash App Pay Kit SDK instance:

``` kotlin
val payKit : CashAppPayKit = CashAppPayKitFactory.createSandbox(Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId)
```

Creating a production Cash App Pay Kit SDK instance:
``` kotlin
val payKit : CashAppPayKit = CashAppPayKitFactory.create(Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId)
```

{: .info }
**Optional:** We recommend using the [Cash App Sandbox App][sandbox-app]{:target="_blank"} to test the payment flow in the Sandbox environment during your development phase.

## Step 3: Register for State Updates

To receive updates from Pay Kit, you’ll need to implement the `CashAppPayKitListener` interface. The interface exposes a single function, which gets called whenever there’s an internal state change emitted by the SDK:

``` kotlin
interface CashAppPayKitListener {
   fun payKitStateDidChange(newState: PayKitState)
}
```

You register with the SDK instance you’ve created above:

``` kotlin
payKit.registerForStateUpdates(this)
```

> You should also use the unregister function when you're done with the SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should also use the `unregister` function when you're done with the SDK:
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/522aa7b27c98d5b78b5cc00a438de93adecf5e74

Again, register is not a function, so updated to bold text and capitalised.

``` kotlin
payKit.unregisterFromStateUpdates()
```

### States

`PayKitState` is a sealed class parameter. We suggest that you use a Kotlin `when` statement on it. Some of these possible states are for information only, but most drive the logic of your integration. The most critical states to handle are in the table below:

| State  | Description |
|:-------|:------------|
| `ReadyToAuthorize` | You should show the Cash App Pay button in your UI and call `authorizeCustomerRequest()` when it is tapped. |
| `Approved` | Grants are ready for your backend to use to create a payment. |
| `Declined` | Customer has declined the Cash App Pay authorization and must start the flow over or choose a new payment method. |
| `PayKitExceptionState` | The general wrapper state for exceptions. These can range from integration errors to network errors. The exception states are emitted only for unrecoverable error states. |

> ## Step 4: Implement Deep Linking Handling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Implement Deep Linking
```

  scopeId = cashAppData.merchantId,
)

payKit.createCustomerRequest(request)
```

## Step 6: Authorize the Customer Request

### Step 6A: Add an Authorize Request Event to Cash App Pay button

Once the Cash App Pay Kit SDK is in the `ReadyToAuthorize` state, you can display the Cash App Pay button. When the Customer taps the button, you can authorize the customer request. Documentation for a Cash App Pay button component can be found [here][cash-button-docs]{:target='_blank'}

``` kotlin
payKit.authorizeCustomerRequest()
```

{: .info }
> Currently, the Button provided by the SDK is unmanaged. This means that it's a stylized button which isn't aware of SDK events out-of-the-box. It is the developer's responsibility to call the above method when the button is tapped and also manage any disabled and loading states.

Your app will redirect to Cash App for authorization. When the authorization is completed, your redirect URI will be called to open your app. The SDK will fetch your authorized request and return it to your callback listener as one of 2 states: `Approved` or `Declined`.

### Step 6B: Validate the Cash App Pay Order

{: .alert }
> This step must not be skipped

> Finally the Cash App order must be validated. This looks something like the below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you must validate the Cash App order. This will look like the following example:
```

``` kotlin
Afterpay.validateCashAppOrder(
    jwt,
    grant.id,
    customerResponseData.customerProfile!!.id,
) { validationResult ->
    when (validationResult) {
      is CashAppValidationResponse.Success -> TODO("Capture payment with token and grant id")
      is CashAppValidationResponse.Failure -> TODO("Handle an invalid Cash App order")
    }
}
```

## Step 7: Pass Grants to the Backend and Capture Payment

> The `Approved` state will contain a Grants list object associated with it and it can be used with Afterpay's "Immediate Payment Capture" or "Deferred Payment Auth" API. Pass the grant ID along with the token to capture/auth using a server-to-server request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Approved` state will contain a `Grants list` object associated with it and it can be used with Afterpay's **Immediate Payment Capture** or **Deferred Payment Auth** API. Pass the `grant ID` along with the token to capture/authorize using a server-to-server request.
```

Author: Addressed in [b69e03e](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/b69e03ec5a358005cc5e5823c75b8114e7b58f05)

---
layout: default
title: Cash App Pay
parent: Getting Started
nav_order: 4
---

# Cash App Pay
{: .d-inline-block .no_toc }
NEW (v4.3.0)
{: .label .label-green }

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

{: .alert }
> Cash App Pay is currently available in the following region(s): US

> Cash App Pay support can be added using your Afterpay merchant account. This requires a token to be generated by a server-to-server call to the Afterpay API Create Checkout endpoint with a parameter of `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App PayKit SDK.

Reviewer 2: nit: `PayKit` should be `Pay Kit` where used

Author: Addressed in [bf06244](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/bf062444eb308c1ffa171aa93951333bc266c7cb)

{: .info }
> When creating a checkout token, both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl` must be set. Failing to do so will cause undefined behavior. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more by checking the [api reference][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'}.

## Step 1: Import the Cash App PayKit Dependency

You can get the the latest version of the SDK from Maven. This is the import definition using Gradle:

```gradle
implementation "app.cash.paykit:core:1.0.3"
```

For definitions of other build systems, see [Cash PayKit on Maven Central][cash-on-maven]{:target="_blank"}.

{: .info }
> Version `v1.0.3` of the SDK size is `12.3 kB`.

## Step 2: Create a Cash App PayKit SDK Instance

> To create a new instance of the Cash App PayKit SDK, you must pass the `clientId`. This is a required field. This can be retrieved through the Afterpay object: `Afterpay.environment.payKitId`.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if it would make sense for us to rename `payKitId` to `payKitClientId`, for having a better 1-1 correspondence. WDYT?

Author: Changed for docs in [a0b7a0f](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/a0b7a0f60c793dc140b969b286d60c7951eb721d). Will update code in #184

{: .note }
> Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][configure-afterpay] before attempting to access `Afterpay.environment.payKitId`

> You should use CashAppPayKitFactory to create an instance of the Cash App PayKit SDK. When doing so, you'll need to specify the environment you will use, Sandbox or Production. The function `createSandbox()` will create an SDK instance in the Sandbox environment.

Reviewer 3: nit: add backticks to `CashAppPayKitFactory`

Author: Fixed in [9c0ab09](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/9c0ab09064b7fc70ced2fbcf05a8f0c94112c7cc)

{: .info }
> You should use the Sandbox environment during the development phase and production for your actual production releases.

Creating a sandbox Cash App PayKit SDK instance:

``` kotlin
val payKit : CashAppPayKit = CashAppPayKitFactory.createSandbox(Afterpay.environment.payKitId)
```

Creating a production Cash App PayKit SDK instance:
``` kotlin
val payKit : CashAppPayKit = CashAppPayKitFactory.create(Afterpay.environment.payKitId)
```

{: .info }

> **Optional:** We recommend using the [Cash App Sandbox App][sandbox-app]{:target="_blank"} to compare the Sandbox environment of the SDK during your development phase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Optional:** We recommend using the [Cash App Sandbox App][sandbox-app]{:target="_blank"} to test the payment flow in the Sandbox environment during your development phase.
```

## Step 3: Register for State Updates

To receive updates from Pay Kit, you’ll need to implement the `CashAppPayKitListener` interface. The interface exposes a single function, which gets called whenever there’s an internal state change emitted by the SDK:

``` kotlin
interface CashAppPayKitListener {
   fun payKitStateDidChange(newState: PayKitState)
}
```

You register with the SDK instance you’ve created above:

``` kotlin
payKit.registerForStateUpdates(this)
```

You should also use the unregister function when you're done with the SDK:

``` kotlin
payKit.unregisterFromStateUpdates()
```

### States

`PayKitState` is a sealed class parameter. We suggest that you use a Kotlin `when` statement on it. Some of these possible states are for information only, but most drive the logic of your integration. The most critical states to handle are in the table below:

| State  | Description |
|:-------|:------------|

> | `ReadyToAuthorize` | Show a Cash App Pay button in your UI and call `authorizeCustomerRequest()` when it is tapped. |

Reviewer 3: I guess I need to correct this on our docs as well. The sentence here is a bit misleading, since it **sounds** like this state will show the button, but in reality what we meant to say here is that it is up to the developer to show the button at this point. So perhaps let's rephrase this as: "You should show the Cash App Pay button ...." .

I'll do the same update on our side.

### Step 5A: Setup the Afterpay Cash App Pay Handler

Setup a handler to manage the data when received from signing the order token. Alternatively this can be passed in as the `handler` parameter in step 5B.

``` kotlin
class ExampleActivity: Activity {
  Afterpay.setCashAppHandler(object : AfterpayCashAppHandler {
    override fun didReceiveCashAppData(cashAppData: CashAppSignOrderResult) {
      when (cashAppData) {
        is CashAppSignOrderResult.Success -> TODO("Create the PayKit customemr request")
        is CashAppSignOrderResult.Failure -> TODO("Display an error and restart payment flow")
      }
    }
  })
}
```

### Step 5B: Sign the Order Token

After retrieving the token from your server to server call, the order needs to be signed, so as to retrieve the JWT and associated data. This can be done either by the suspending function:

``` kotlin
Afterpay.signCashAppOrder(token)
```

or with the async version of it:

``` kotlin
Afterpay.signCashAppOrderAsync(token)
```

### Step 5C: Create a PayKit Customer Request

> To charge $5.00 as a one-time payment, your createrequest call might look like this (in the below example, `cashAppData` is the response object that is returned in the `didReceiveCashAppData` handler method):

Reviewer 4: Does the amount need to be set in the server-to-server call? From from glancing through this, mentioning the amount made me expect to see it in the code. What about this?
```suggestion
To charge a one-time payment, your create request call might look like this (in the below example, `cashAppData` is the response object that is returned in the `didReceiveCashAppData` handler method, which would echo the amount from your server-to-server Create Checkout call):
```

``` kotlin
val request = PayKitPaymentAction.OneTimeAction(
  redirectUri = cashAppData.redirectUri,
  currency = PayKitCurrency.USD,
  amount = (cashAppData.amount * 100).toInt(),
  scopeId = cashAppData.merchantId,
)

payKit.createCustomerRequest(request)
```

## Step 6: Authorize the Customer Request

### Step 6A: Add an Authorize Request Event to Cash App Pay button

Once the Cash App PayKit SDK is in the `ReadyToAuthorize` state, you can display the Cash App Pay button. When the Customer taps the button, you can authorize the customer request. Documentation for a Cash App Pay button component can be found [here][cash-button-docs]{:target='_blank'}

``` kotlin
payKit.authorizeCustomerRequest()
```

{: .info }

> > Currently, the Button provided by the SDK is unmanaged. This means that it's a stylized button which isn't aware of SDK events out-of-the-box. It is the developer's responsibility to call the above method when the button is clicked and also manage any disabled and loading states.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Currently, the Button provided by the SDK is unmanaged. This means that it's a stylized button which isn't aware of SDK events out-of-the-box. It is the developer's responsibility to call the above method when the button is tapped and also manage any disabled and loading states.
```

Your app will redirect to Cash App for authorization. When the authorization is completed, your redirect URI will be called to open your app. The SDK will fetch your authorized request and return it to your callback listener as one of 2 states: `Approved` or `Declined`.

### Step 6B: Validate the Cash App Pay Order

{: .alert }
> This step must not be skipped

Finally the Cash App order must be validated. This looks something like the below:

``` kotlin
Afterpay.validateCashAppOrder(
    jwt,
    grant.id,
    customerResponseData.customerProfile!!.id,
) { validationResult ->
    when (validationResult) {
      is CashAppValidationResponse.Success -> TODO("Capture payment with token and grant id")
      is CashAppValidationResponse.Failure -> TODO("Handle an invalid Cash App order")
    }
}
```

## Step 7: Pass Grants to the Backend and Capture Payment

> The `Approved` state will contain a Grants list object associated with it and it can be used with Afterpay's capture payment API. Pass the grant id along with the token to capture using a server to server request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `Approved` state will contain a Grants list object associated with it and it can be used with Afterpay's "Immediate Payment Capture" or "Deferred Payment Auth" API. Pass the grant ID along with the token to capture/auth using a server-to-server request.
```

{: .alert }
> Cash App Pay is currently available in the following region(s): US

> Cash App Pay support can be added using your Afterpay merchant account. This requires a token to be generated by a server-to-server call to the Afterpay API Create Checkout endpoint with a parameter of `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App Pay Kit SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can addd Cash App Pay support using your Afterpay merchant account. To do this, you must generate a token by sending a server-to-server call to the Afterpay API Create Checkout <!--can you provide a link to this here?--> endpoint with the parameter `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App Pay Kit SDK.
```

Author: Addressed in [3f0282c](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/3f0282c492fe293fd098fd2f2b4b0912de2acf1e)

Reviewer: In the first line, addd has three d's please remove one. sorry for missing this

Reviewer: @ScottAntonacAP I think the first line needs to be revised, my understanding is we are wrapping CA SDK inside the AP SDK, when we say "support" it is confusing.

Author: We are not wrapping the Cash App Pay Kit SDK, but rather adding allowing the merchants app to support Cash App Pay using their Afterpay merchant account. That's why it needs to be imported. Happy to update the first line 🙂 but given that information, what would you suggest?

Author: Potentially the first line could just be changed to something like:

> You can add Cash App Pay support to your app using your Afterpay merchant account.

Reviewer: With our latest enhancements, you can now support taking Cash App Pay payments using your Afterpay merchant account.  - does this sound better?

Reviewer: You can support taking Cash App Pay payments using your Afterpay merchant account. or With our latest enhancements, you can now support taking Cash App Pay payments using your Afterpay merchant account.

Reviewer: choose any one

Author: Addressed in [b469f13](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/b469f1364f0069df608df43ababea3e33ac7bf5b)

{: .info }

> > When creating a checkout token, both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl` must be set. Failing to do so will cause undefined behavior. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more by checking the [api reference][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When creating a checkout token, you must set both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl`. If they are not set, it will cause undefined behavior<!--can you be more specific on "undefined behavior"-->. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more details at [api reference][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'}.
```

Author: Addressed in [3f0282c](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/3f0282c492fe293fd098fd2f2b4b0912de2acf1e)

Reviewer: @ScottAntonacAP Can you change the last line to See more details at [Redirect Method]([api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'} in the Standard Checkout API.

Author: Addressed in [522aa7b](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/522aa7b27c98d5b78b5cc00a438de93adecf5e74)

## Step 1: Import the Cash App Pay Kit Dependency

You can get the the latest version of the SDK from Maven. This is the import definition using Gradle:

```gradle
implementation "app.cash.paykit:core:1.0.3"
```

For definitions of other build systems, see [Cash App Pay Kit on Maven Central][cash-on-maven]{:target="_blank"}.

{: .info }
> Version `v1.0.3` of the SDK size is `12.3 kB`.

## Step 2: Create a Cash App Pay Kit SDK Instance

To create a new instance of the Cash App Pay Kit SDK, you must pass the `clientId`. This is a required field. This can be retrieved through the Afterpay object: `Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId`.

{: .note }

> > Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][configure-afterpay] before attempting to access `Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Confirm that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][configure-afterpay] before attempting to access `Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId`
```

> You should use `CashAppPayKitFactory` to create an instance of the Cash App Pay Kit SDK. When doing so, you'll need to specify the environment you will use, Sandbox or Production. The function `createSandbox()` will create an SDK instance in the Sandbox environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use `CashAppPayKitFactory` to create an instance of the Cash App Pay Kit SDK. When doing so, you must specify the environment you will use, Sandbox or Production. The function `createSandbox()` will create an SDK instance in the Sandbox environment.
```

{: .info }

> > You should use the Sandbox environment during the development phase and Production for your actual production releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You should use the Sandbox environment during the development phase and the Production environment for your production releases.
```

> Creating a sandbox Cash App Pay Kit SDK instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a Sandbox Cash App Pay Kit SDK instance:
```

``` kotlin
val payKit : CashAppPayKit = CashAppPayKitFactory.createSandbox(Afterpay.environment.payKitClientId)
```

> Creating a production Cash App Pay Kit SDK instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a Production Cash App Pay Kit SDK instance:
```

| State  | Description |
|:-------|:------------|
| `ReadyToAuthorize` | You should show the Cash App Pay button in your UI and call `authorizeCustomerRequest()` when it is tapped. |

> | `Approved` | Grants are ready for your backend to use to create a payment. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Approved` | Grants are ready for your backend to use and to create a payment. |
```

You can create a customer request as soon as you know the amount you’d like to charge or if you'd like to create an on-file payment request. We suggest that you create this request as soon as your checkout view controller loads, so that your Customer can authorize the request without delay.

### Step 5A: Sign the Order Token

> After retrieving the token from your server-to-server call, the order needs to be signed, so as to retrieve the JWT and associated data. This can be done either by the suspending function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After retrieving the token from your server-to-server call, you must sign the order, so that you can retrieve the JWT and associated data. This can be done either by the suspending function or with the async version of it. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Example of the suspending function:

Author: Addressed in [3f0282c](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/3f0282c492fe293fd098fd2f2b4b0912de2acf1e)

``` kotlin
Afterpay.signCashAppOrder(token) { cashAppData ->
  when (cashAppData) {
    is CashAppSignOrderResult.Success -> TODO("Create the Pay Kit customemr request")
    is CashAppSignOrderResult.Failure -> TODO("Display an error and restart payment flow")
  }
}
```

> or with the async version of it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of the asynchronous version of the suspending function:
```

``` kotlin
Afterpay.signCashAppOrderAsync(token) { cashAppData ->
  when (cashAppData) {
    is CashAppSignOrderResult.Success -> TODO("Create the Pay Kit customemr request")
    is CashAppSignOrderResult.Failure -> TODO("Display an error and restart payment flow")
  }
}
```

### Step 5B: Create a Pay Kit Customer Request

> To charge a one-time payment, your create request call might look like this (in the below example, `cashAppData` is the response object that is returned in the traling lambda in step 5A, which would echo the amount from your server-to-server Create Checkout call):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To charge a one-time payment, your `create request` call might look like this (in the following example, `cashAppData` is the response object that is returned in the trailing lambda in step 5A, which would echo the amount from your server-to-server `Create Checkout` call): <!--Please verify capitalization of `create checkout`-->
```

Author: Addressed in [3f0282c](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-android/pull/185/commits/3f0282c492fe293fd098fd2f2b4b0912de2acf1e)

Create Checkout is the name of a call, not code. Therefore it shouldn't be wrapped in backticks but will upper the Create Request case to match Create Checkout. The call to those functions will be implementation dependent and therefore not able to give a concrete piece of code out of concern for causing confusion.

Reviewer: ok

### Step 6A: Add an Authorize Request Event to Cash App Pay button

> Once the Cash App Pay Kit SDK is in the `ReadyToAuthorize` state, you can display the Cash App Pay button. When the Customer taps the button, you can authorize the customer request. Documentation for a Cash App Pay button component can be found [here][cash-button-docs]{:target='_blank'}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Cash App Pay Kit SDK is in the `ReadyToAuthorize` state, you can display the Cash App Pay button. When the customer taps the button, you can authorize the customer request. See [Cash Button Docs][cash-button-docs]{:target='_blank'} to learn more about the Cash App Pay button component.
```

Reviewer: Please change the last line to " See [[CashPayKitButton][cash-button-docs]{:target='_blank'} to learn more about the Cash App Pay button component."
